
===== PDF PAGE 41 =====
Logically, GAAP makes complete sense. It suggests that we sell as
much as we can, spend as little as we can, and pocket the difference. But
humans aren’t logical. (One episode of Bridezillas pretty much proves that.)
Just because GAAP makes logical sense doesn’t mean it makes “human
sense.” GAAP both supersedes our natural behavior and makes us believe
bigger is better. So we try to sell more. We try and try and try to sell our
way to success. We do everything we can to make the top line (revenue)
grow so that something, anything, will drip down to the bottom line. It
becomes a relentless cycle of chasing after every shiny object disguised as
opportunity (that’s “little pumpkins” to my peeps—you know who you are).

Throughout this haphazard, desperate growth process, our expenses are
lost in the wash—we just pay as we go. They’re all necessary, right? Who
knows? We’re too busy hunting down sales and trying to deliver on all our
promises to worry about the impact of expenses!

We try to spend less without considering investments versus costs. We
don’t think about leveraging our spending to get way more mileage out of
way less expense. We can’t. The more variety of stuff we sell, the more our
cost of doing businesses rises. They say it takes money to make money. But
no one ever tells us what that translates to in the real world: It takes more
money to make less money.

As our monster gets bigger, its appetite gets out of hand. Now we’re
faced with covering expenses for more employees, more stuff, more
everything. The monster grows. And grows. And grows. Meanwhile, we’re
still dealing with the same problems, just bigger ones: more empty bank
accounts, higher stacks of credit card bills, bigger loans, and an ever-
increasing list of “must-pay” expenses. Sound familiar, Dr. Frankenstein?

GAAP’s fundamental flaw is that it goes against human nature. No
matter how much income we generate, we will always find a way to spend
it—all of it. And we have good reasons for all our spending choices.
Everything is justified. Soon enough, whatever money we had in the bank
dwindles down to nothing as we struggle to cover every “necessary”
expense. And that’s when we find ourselves in the Survival Trap.

A secondary flaw is this: GAAP teaches us to focus on sales and
expenses first. Once again, it works against our human nature, which urges
us to grow what we focus on. It’s something called the Primacy Effect
(more on that in the next chapter)—we focus on what comes first (sales and

===== PDF PAGE 42 =====
expenses) and actually become blind to what comes last. Yes, GAAP makes
us blind to profit.

There is a saying: “What gets measured, gets done.” GAAP has us
measure sales first (it is the top line, after all), and therefore we sell like
mad while expenses are treated like a necessary evil to support—you
guessed it—more sales. We spend all that we have because we believe we
must. And we use terms like “plowback” or “reinvest” to feel good about it.
Profit? Your salary? Mere afterthoughts. Leftovers.

Another problem with GAAP is its overwhelming complexity. You
need to hire an accountant to get it right, and when you ask the accountant
the details about GAAP, he is likely to get confused. The system changes
and is up for interpretation. And we can play games with GAAP: move
some numbers around and post stuff in different spots, and the numbers
look different. Just ask Enron—they were able to post profits as they were
going bankrupt. Yuck!

Before we go any further, I want to make sure you and I are on the
same page when I talk about profit. Because the way accountants think
about profit can be very different.

Here’s what I mean: A couple of years before I wrote The Toilet Paper
Entrepreneur, I was sitting in my accountant’s office, watching him scratch
down some notes with a pencil on a legal pad. He erased something, then
wrote down another note. Then he looked at his computer, clicked and
clacked a few buttons, and the dot matrix printer spit out a report.

“Yep. Just as I thought, Mike,” Keith said, peering over his John
Lennon wannabe glasses.

“What?” I said.

“You had a $15,000 profit this year. Congratulations, that isn’t too
bad.”

For a second I felt pride. Damn straight there is a profit. I patted myself
on the back. Then I had a sinking feeling. Where was the cash? There
wasn’t a penny in the corporate coffers, let alone in my pocket.

Then, feeling embarrassed that I didn’t know the answer, I asked, “Hey,
Keith, where is the profit?”

He pointed to the paper report that the printer had just spit out. He
circled it on the paper with his fancy-schmancy number 2 pencil.

===== PDF PAGE 53 =====
principles of weight loss and nutrition.

1. Use Small Plates—Using smaller plates starts a chain reaction.
When you use a small plate, you get smaller portions, which
means you take in fewer calories. When you take in fewer
calories than you normally would, you start to lose weight.

2. Serve Sequentially—If you eat the vegetables, rich in
nutrients and vitamins, first, they will start satisfying your
hunger. When you move on to the next course—your mac and
cheese or mashed potatoes (they don’t count as veggies! }—you
will automatically eat less. By changing the sequence of your
meals by eating your vegetables first, you automatically bring
a nutritional balance to your diet.

3. Remove Temptation—Remove any temptation from where
you eat. People are driven by convenience. If you’re anything
like me, when there’s a bag of Doritos sitting in the kitchen, it
calls out to you constantly—even when you aren’t hungry. If
you don’t have any junk food in the house, you’re probably not
going to run out to the store to get it. (That would mean putting
on pants.) You’re going to eat the healthy food you stocked
instead.

4, Enforce a Rhythm—If you wait until you are hungry to eat, it
is already too late and you will binge. Then you are likely to
eat too much and stuff yourself. You go from starving to
stuffed, and back to starving again. These peaks and valleys in
your hunger result in way too much calorie consumption.
Instead, eat regularly (many researchers suggest five small
meals a day) so that you never get hungry. Without the peaks
and valleys, you will actually eat fewer calories.

Though they don’t realize it, the folks in the diet industry know quite a
lot about growing a healthy business. Let’s examine these principles one by
one:

===== PDF PAGE 54 =====
1. Parkinson’s Law: Why Your Business Is Like a Tube of Toothpaste

In the years since I discovered these four physical health principles, I dug
further and further into why they matter. The four principles that the PBS
fitness expert shared are all rooted in behavioral science. When you know
what makes you tick, it gives you a massive advantage over yourself.
Behavioral science gives you the advantage to subdue your biggest
competitor, namely, you.

Let’s start with small plates. In 1955, a modern philosopher named C.
Northcote Parkinson came up with the counterintuitive Parkinson’s Law:
that the demand for something expands to match its supply. In economics,
this is called induced demand—it’s why expanding roads to reduce traffic
congestion never works in the long term because more drivers always show
up in their cars to fill those extra lanes.

In other words, if you went to a Spanish tapas bar that served those tiny
plates, you would eat less. But if you went to a Ponderosa all-you-can-eat
buffet, where they have plates the size of manhole covers, you would eat
until the food was coming out your ears. (It’s an all-you-CAN-eat buffet . . .
Challenge accepted!)

Similarly, if your client gives you a week to turn around a project,
you’d likely take the whole week—but if she gives you just a day, you’ll
make it happen in a day. You see the more we have of something, the more
of it we consume. This is true for anything: food, time, even toothpaste.

How much toothpaste do you use when you have a brand-new tube of
toothpaste? A big ol’ glop of it, right? I mean, why not? After all, you have
a full tube of toothpaste. So you put a nice long bead on that brush of yours.
Then before you start brushing, you turn on the faucet to moisten up the
brush a little. Then it happens .. . damn it, the paste falls into the sink. But
who cares, right? You just opened up that tube, for God’s sake! You have
tons of this stuff. So you put on another big ol’ glop and brush away.

But when you open that cabinet drawer and find a nearly empty
tube . .. my oh my, how the game changes. It starts off with an insane
amount of squeezing, twisting, and turning. You reach for your toothbrush,
momentarily releasing a little bit of your viselike grip on the tube, and with
that, like a tortoise’s head when a three-year-old comes at it with a stick, the
paste shoots back into the tube. You could shout out some expletives at this

===== PDF PAGE 55 =====
point, but you can’t because you are already onto stage 2 of toothpaste
extraction: biting down hard on the tube. With a precarious balance of
biting, one hand squeezing and tube twisting, while your other hand
somehow tries to get the brush bristles to scoop out toothpaste, you have a
victory. One droplet of toothpaste. Which is just enough for that fresh-
mouth sensation.

Isn’t it funny how much we change based upon what is available? Here
is what’s fascinating: Parkinson’s Law triggers two behaviors when supply
is scant. When you have less, you do two things. The first is obvious: you
become frugal. When there is less toothpaste in the tube, you use less to
brush your teeth. That is the obvious part. But something else, far more
impactful happens: you become extremely innovative and find all sorts of
ways to extract that last drop of toothpaste from the tube.

If there is one thing that will forever change your relationship with
money, it is the understanding of Parkinson’s Law. You need to
intentionally make less toothpaste (money) available to brush your teeth (to
operate your business). When there is less, you will automatically run your
business more frugally (that’s good) and you will run your business far
more innovatively (that’s great!).

If you first extract your profit and remove it from sight, you’ll be left
with a nearly empty toothpaste tube to run your business. When less money
is available to run your business, you will find ways to get the same or
better results with less. By taking your profit first, you will be forced to
think smarter and innovate more.

2. The Primacy Effect: Why the First Part of Profit First Matters

The second behavioral principle you need to understand about yourself is
called the Primacy Effect. The principle is this: We place additional
significance on whatever we encounter first. Here’s a little demonstration
that may help you understand.

I am going to show you two sets of words. One set describes a sinner
and another describes a saint. The goal is, as quickly as possible, to
determine which one is which. Got it? Good. Now look at the two sets of
words below and determine which one describes the sinner and which one
the saint.

===== PDF PAGE 56 =====
1. EVIL, HATE, ANGER, JOY, CARE, LOVE
2. LOVE, CARE, JOY, ANGER, HATE, EVIL

At first glance you likely identified the first set of words to be the
sinner and the second set of words to be the saint. If you did, that is
wonderful news, because it means you are a human being and are
experiencing the Primacy Effect. In other words, you will thrive under
Profit First. If you tried to figure out the catch as you were going through
the exercise, that is awesome news, too; it means you are an entrepreneur
and are more than willing to break old systems (like reading left to right
only), which also means you will thrive under Profit First.

Now look at the set of words again. You will see that both sets of words
are identical, just in the opposite sequence.

So when you see EVIL and HATE at the start of a set of words, your
mind assigns greater weight to those words and less weight to the remaining
words. When the set started with LOVE and CARE you put the weight
there.

When we follow the conventional formula of Sales - Expenses =
Profit, we are primed to focus on those first two words, Sales and Expenses,
and treat Profit as an afterthought. We then behave accordingly. We sell as
hard as we can, then use the money we collect to pay expenses. We stay
stuck in the cycle of selling to pay bills, over and over again, wondering
why we never see any profit. Who’s the sinner now?

When profit comes first, it is the focus, and it is never forgotten.

3. Remove Temptation: Once You Take Your Profit First, Put It Away

My greatest weakness is Chocodiles: Twinkies covered in dark chocolate,
filled with cream, and wrapped in love. Fortunately, they stopped making
them.* But if one sneaked into my house, even if it had expired in 1972, I
would devour that delicious elixir of love and monounsaturated fats. Now I
always make sure I have healthy options with me, and the junk is nowhere
around.

Money works the same way. As you implement Profit First, you are
going to use the powerful force of “out of sight, out of mind.” As you

===== PDF PAGE 57 =====
generate a profit (which, remember, starts today), you are going to remove
the money from your immediate access. You won’t see it, so you won’t
access it. And just like anything that you don’t have a reasonable degree of
access to, you will find a way to work with what you do have and not worry
about what you don’t. Then, when Mr. Buffett (ahem, your profit account)
releases money to you, it will serve as a bonus.

4. Enforce a Rhythm

Just as it keeps us from starving and bingeing on food, enforcing a rhythm
works with money, too. When we get into a rhythm (I will explain in
Chapter 6 a twice-a-month method that I call the 10/25 rule), we don’t get
into the reactive mode of crazy spending when we get big deposits and
panicking in the face of big cash dips. I am not saying the money will
automatically appear and you’ll always have cash at your disposal, but
establishing a rhythm will get you out of the daily panic.

In fact, establishing a rhythm will also be a great indicator of overall
cash flow. This system is the easiest way to measure cash flow. Instead of
reading the cash flow statement (which, honestly, when was the last time
you did that?), you can measure your cash flow by just checking your bank
accounts, which you do anyway.

When you get into a rhythm with your cash management you’|l have
your finger on the pulse of your business. You will monitor your cash
position every day by just looking at your bank account. Log in. Spend two
seconds looking at your balances. Log out. You will know where you stand
that quickly. Think of your cash flow as waves rolling onto the beach. If the
cash wave is big, you will notice and take action (this is when looking at the
reports with the guidance of a pro is helpful). When the waves are small,
you will surely notice that, too. Most of the time, I expect the cash waves
will be normal, and no action will be required. But no matter what, you will
always know. Because you will continue to do what you normally do: log
into your bank account.

BUT IF | SET ASIDE MY PROFITS, HOW WILL I GROW?

===== PDF PAGE 65 =====
BANK BALANCE ACCOUNTING

The default cash-management system for most entrepreneurs is what I call
bank balance accounting. Ironically, it is what our accountants tell us not to
do. “Don’t look at your bank accounts,” they say. “Look at your accounting
system.”

Right. Don’t you just love looking at your accounting system? Just like
those one thousand “beautiful” vacation pictures your friend shows you,
with a “funny story” about each one. You could look all day long. Not.

If you follow your accountant’s directions explicitly, this is what is
expected of you when you review your accounting system to figure out how
much cash you have—once you have reconciled all accounts for accuracy,
reviewed your profit and loss (P&L) and cash flow statements and then tie
the numbers into your balance sheet. Next you’ll run the critical metrics,
such as your OCR (operating cash ratio), inventory turn, and both the
current ratio and quick ratio. Then you’! tie those into your KPI (key
performance indicators), and then you will know the health of your
business. Oh, and before I forget, do that every week. Then you will have a
clear understanding of where your business is. So says the accountant.

There is just one problem: I have no idea how to truly read and tie in all
those documents and ratios. In fact, that is why I hired my accountant and
bookkeeper in the first place. My head is spinning just writing this down. In
fact, I may be having flashbacks. It’s bad, my friends. Really bad. When I
think about financial reporting docs I start to get the shakes, and if I look at
numbers too long, I inevitably end up under my desk sucking my thumb
(still a hundred times better than eating liverwurst).

So what do I do? What do most entrepreneurs do? We revert to bank
balance accounting. What is that? We log into our bank accounts, make note
of our balances, and then, based upon what we see, make decisions on how
to proceed. When our balance is low, we make collection calls and sell hard.
When our balance is high, we invest in equipment and expansion. It works.
Kinda.

Bank balance accounting seems to work because it is how we are wired
to look at quick indicators (e.g., “Does my bank account have enough
money?”). Then we trust our gut and take an action. This system doesn’t

===== PDF PAGE 66 =====
work perfectly, though, because it seems that we never have enough money
left to pay ourselves. That’s why I created Profit First.

Profit First is designed so that you can (and should) continue doing
bank balance accounting. The system is set up with your bank accounts so
that you can log in, see what your balance is, and make decisions
accordingly. This is what you are doing already, so you don’t need to
change. Profit First just has multiple accounts at your bank so that when
you log in, you know what purpose that money is meant to serve. You open
your “envelope,” see what you have to work with, and make your decisions.
Will it be rice and beans or Wiener schnitzel?

With Profit First, we are not going to change your behavior; we are
going to put guardrails around it. We are not only going to allow you to do
what you always have done; we are also going to encourage it.

THE FIVE FOUNDATIONAL ACCOUNTS

If you’ve made it this far into the book, I assume you’re on board with the
idea of Profit First. It’s time to take your first step: setting up your
envelopes, or plates. Do this now. Don’t put it off for later. It’s time to get
your ass in gear.

What you are about to do is the foundation of Profit First. This is the
structure your profits will be built on. All the muscle in the world is useless
if it isn’t connected to a strong skeletal structure. These accounts are the
bones.

Here are the five checking accounts you need to set up:

1. INCOME

2. PROFIT

3. OWNER’S COMP
4. TAX

5. OPEX

Make sure you set these up as checking accounts. The flexibility
offered by checking accounts far outweighs any minuscule interest you get

===== PDF PAGE 67 =====
by using savings accounts. Call your bank and set up the foundational five
accounts. Most banks allow you to assign a nickname to the account that is
displayed online and on statements in addition to the account number. Just
as Mom labeled her envelopes, name your accounts according to their
purpose.

You can use your existing primary bank account as one of the five
accounts. Rename it your OPEX account because you are likely paying all
your bills from that account. Going forward, we are just going to move
deposits to your INCOME account. That should be a no-brainer for check
deposits; simply put them into a new account. For other types of deposits,
such as credit card or ACH payments, you’ll have to update your bank
information wherever necessary. The process will take about half an hour—
if you have a lot of automated payments, maybe an hour. Make the effort
and get this done.

TWO “NO-TEMPTATION” ACCOUNTS

Now that you’ve set up your five foundational accounts at your primary
bank, your next step is to set up two “no-temptation accounts.” We are
going to get your taxes out of sight and out of mind. And we are going to do
the same with your PROFIT account.

You may be thinking, “Why do I need to do this? I already have a TAX
account and PROFIT account at my primary bank. Why do I need a
duplicate?” The reason we have these secondary accounts is to keep the
money that you allocate and reserve for tax and profit out of your sight.
Because when something isn’t available to consume, you don’t consume it.

If something is not readily available, we are unlikely to go through an
extraordinary measure to consume it. Your profit is for you, and if you can
access it easily, you might be tempted to “borrow” from it to cover
expenses. And the tax money? That belongs to the government. We are
going to make sure you never borrow (a soft term for “steal”) from these
accounts.

If you take money from your PROFIT account and put it back into the
business, you are basically saying that you are unwilling to find a way to
run your business with the operating expenses you allocated for it. If you

===== PDF PAGE 77 =====
ACTUAL TAP PFS DELTA FIX
Top Line Revenue 4 j fi 4
a2 j j j j
Material & Subs ef i t 4
A3 c3 } f |
Real Revenue 100% f f j
Ad B4 C4 D4 | E4 |
Profit
AS BS cs DS ES
Owner’s Comp
| AG B6 cé D6 6
Tax
AT B7 c7 07 &7
Operating Expenses
Fig. 3. Profit First Instant Assessment Form
Visit http://bit.ly/2iFfla6 on a web-enabled device to view a larger, printable webpage
with this image.
AL
1. In the Actual column, cell A1, enter your Top Line Revenue
for the last twelve full months. This is your total revenue from
sales, and should be the top line (or near it) on your P&L
statement. One of the common labels for the top line is Total
Income, Total Sales, Revenue, Sales, or Net Sales.
A2
2. If you are a manufacturer, retailer, or more than 25 percent of
your sales are derived from the resale or assembly of inventory,
put the cost of materials (not labor) for the last full twelve
months in the Material & Subs cell, A2. This is not, I repeat,
this is not the same as Cost of Goods Sold. This is only for

===== PDF PAGE 78 =====
materials, and only if your materials cost 25 percent or more of
your sales.

3. If subcontractors deliver the majority of your service, put the
cost of the subcontractors for these twelve months in the
Material & Subs cell, A2. (Subcontractors are people who
work for you on a project basis, but have the ability to work
autonomously and have the ability to work for others. You
don’t pay them on payroll; you pay them their project fee,
commission, or hourly rate, and they handle their taxes,
benefits, etc., themselves.) In some cases, you will have both
materials and subcontractor costs (think home construction). In
that case, put the cumulative amount of these two costs into
cell A2. Remember to put only your materials and
subcontractors here, but not the labor of your own people.

4, If you are a service company and the majority of your services
are provided by your employees (yourself included), put $0 in
cell A2.

5. If your material or subcontractor costs are less than 25 percent
of your Top Line Revenue, put $0 in cell A2. (We will account
for these expenses in Operating Expenses in a little bit).

6. If you are unsure of what to put in the Material & Subs section,
put $0. Do not overthink this. And do not use it to make
nominal adjustments. The goal here is only to adjust your
company’s revenue to represent what it really makes as
revenue if the majority of cost is for materials, supplies, or
subcontractors. Again, if you are even a wee bit unsure, put $0
in Material & Subs (cell A2). It will serve you better in the
long run by making you more critical of your costs.

A3

7. Now subtract your Material & Subs number from your Top

Line Revenue to calculate your Real Revenue. If you put an n/a

===== PDF PAGE 79 =====
in the Material & Subs section, just copy the Top Line Revenue
number to the Real Revenue cell A3.

8. The goal here is to get you to your Real Revenue number. This
is the real money your company makes. For the other stuff—
subs, materials, etc.—you may make a margin, but it isn’t the
core driver of profitability because you have little control over
it. This can be a real wake-up moment for entrepreneurs. The
real estate agency that does $5,000,000 in annual revenue and
has a couple dozen agents (subcontractors) taking $4,000,000
in commissions is really a $1,000,000 business that manages
real estate agents making $4,000,000, not a $5,000,000
business. The $3,000,000 a year staffing firm that bills out
subcontractors to do work, and pays those subs $2,500,000, is
really a $500,000 business. The architectural firm that bills out
$2,000,000 in annual fees and has an in-house staff that does
practically all the work has Real Revenue of $2,000,000 a year.
The Real Revenue number is a simple, fast way to put all
companies on equal footing (their Real Revenue numbers).

Real Revenue is different from gross profit, in that Real Revenue is
your total revenue minus materials and subcontractors utilized to
create and deliver the service or product. Gross profit, on the other
hand, is an accounting term calculated as total revenue minus
materials, subcontractors, and any of your employees’ time utilized
to create and deliver the service or product. It is a subtle difference
but a critically important one. Gross profit includes a portion of
your employees’ time and your time. But the important thing is this:
you will generally pay your employees for their time regardless of
whether you have a bad sales day or good one. You will likely pay
them the same if they fix a car transmission in four hours or five. So
to simplify things, we categorize any employee that you have, full-
or part-time, as a cost of the business operations, not as a cost of the
goods sold. Plus, gross profit can be manipulated by moving
numbers around. What good is that? We want to make clear sense of
your numbers. So avoid using anything but the cost you incur in

===== PDF PAGE 89 =====
IF YOUR BUSINESS IS BRAND-NEW

How does Profit First work if you just launched your business and have no revenue?
Should you wait until you have some to start using Profit First? Heck, no. Starting with
squat, with your whole business future ahead of you, is actually the best time to start
using Profit First. Why? Because it allows you to form a powerful habit right from the
get-go, when your business is forming and, perhaps more important, prevents you
from developing bad financial habits that can be difficult to break.

Also, in the early stages of building a business, you need to spend as much time as
possible on the selling and the doing; systems and processes come later. For these
reasons, it's best not to worry about getting the exact right percentages for your
business.

Simply use the percentages in the Instant Assessment for your target allocations,
but start at 1 percent allocation for the PROFIT account (Why 1 percent? You'll find out
in the next chapter), 50 percent for OWNER’S COMP, and 15 percent for the TAX
account. Use quarterly adjustments to step up to higher percentages and nudge your
business closer to the TAPs recommended in this book. And as for the advanced Profit
First strategies | share in the end of the book—don't worry about any of that until your
business has been active for at least a year. The goal for new businesses is to form
the basic core of the Profit First good habit and then spend every other waking second
getting your baby off the ground.

TAKE ACTION: COMPLETE THE INSTANT ASSESSMENT
Step 1 (the one and only step): This entire chapter is really one big action
step, so if you have not yet completed an Instant Assessment on your
business, do it now. Can you get a lot out of this book if you table this
exercise for when you have more time or feel up to facing reality? Sure.
Will you get the most out of reading this book and see results quickly if you
don’t? Nope. So stop right now and do it. I’m waiting . . . do it now.
PLEASE READ THIS
If you are feeling overwhelmed, bad about yourself and the choices you’ve
made, or angry about the numbers you came up with in your Instant
Assessment, there is something I want you to know:

You are normal. Totally, completely, 100 percent normal.

===== PDF PAGE 90 =====
If you are having trouble facing the rest of this book right now, that’s
okay. Stop now and come back to it when you feel ready to face it. But do
this one thing: set up a PROFIT account at a separate bank, and every time
you make a deposit, move 1 percent into that account. I know it’s
“peanuts,” and you may think the amount is too small to make an impact on
your business, but that is the reason you’re going to keep the profit
allocation percentage low. You can run your business as you always have,
and you won’t feel a thing, but you will start the habit that will change your
business forever. Soon enough, the feeling of being overwhelmed, the anger
and frustration, will fade as your new profit habit builds. Then you can
crack this book again and dig into the rest of the Profit First system.

===== PDF PAGE 97 =====
FAT MARGINS DRAW STIFF COMPETITION
The goal is to make your profit allocation percentage as high as possible. However,
super high profit percentages are not sustainable. At least not for long, and definitely
not if your revenue stays stagnant. The reason for this is that if you can pull off
consistently fat profits—say 50 percent allocated to Profit and only 10 percent of
revenue to your Operating Expenses—your competitors will figure out what you're
doing. Then, to get more business, they will drop prices (they likely have the profit
margins to afford it). When that happens, you will have to drop prices, too, in order to
stay in business. For competitive sharks, fat margins can be like blood in the water.
The only way to keep big margins is to milk them for all they're worth when you have
them and keep innovating to find new ways to bump up profitability.

OWNER’S COMP TAP

Gone are the days when you paid everyone but yourself and had to support

your life with credit cards and loans from the in-laws. Remember, your

business is supposed to serve you; you are not in service to your business!

No more leftovers for you!

Owner’s Comp is the amount you and the other equity owners take in
pay for the work you do. I suspect you are familiar with the term owner
operator, which means you own the business (have equity) and you operate
the business (work as an employee for the company). Owner’s Comp is the
money we reserve for you and any other owner operators of the business to
get paid for the work you do for the company. (Equity members of your
company who do not work in the business just get a profit distribution.)
Your salary should be on a par with the going rate for the work you do, in
other words—the salary you would have to pay your replacement.

There are two options to consider when choosing your Owner’s Comp
TAP number. Either

1. Take a realistic look at the work you do. If you have a small
company with, say, five employees, you may call yourself the
CEO—but that’s just the title on your card. It’s likely you are
doing a lot of other work. You probably spend a lot of time
selling, completing projects, handling customers, and dealing
with human resources (HR) concerns. In reality, around 2

===== PDF PAGE 98 =====
percent of your time is spent actually doing the job of CEO:

vision planning, strategic negotiations, acquisitions, reporting

to investors, addressing the media, etc. Determine your salary

based on what you are doing 80 percent of the time, and what

you would reasonably pay employees to do those jobs. Then

evaluate pay for all equity owners who work in the business.
Add up the salaries that represent your Owner’s Comp draw. The
percentage of revenue that you set as your Owner’s Comp TAP
must, at minimum, cover Owner’s Comp draw. Remember, you will
likely get raises—maybe even a bonus for a job well done. So make
the percentage one and a quarter times the amount you determine
for your salaries, so you can adjust for revenue fluctuations. Say
you work with four equity owners in a business with a revenue of
$1,000,000, who draw a salary of $50,000 each, you need to set
your Owner’s Comp TAP to at least 25 percent.

Or,

2. Pick the percentage I suggested in the Instant Assessment,
based on your Revenue Range. (Refer to Figure 4.) The money
that is transferred into this account is divided among all equity
employees. It does not have to be split up equally, nor does it
have to be split up based on your equity percentages. The
Owner’s Comp is a negotiated agreement.

Why should you have a separate account if you and the other equity
owners working in the business are just employees? Because you are the
most important employee. If you had to fire people, I suspect you would
fire everyone else before you fired yourself. Think about your very best
employee. I’ll bet you take extra steps to ensure that you are taking care of
that person. I’ll bet you would do everything in your power to keep your
best employees happy, including paying them what they’re worth, right?
Well guess what, bucko! You are your best, most important employee. We
must take care of you.

===== PDF PAGE 99 =====
When it comes to pay, different business formations require you to take
Owner’s Comp in different ways. An S Corporation is different from an
LLC (limited liability company) or a sole proprietorship, which are both
treated way differently than a C Corporation. The Owner’s Comp allocation
still works the same way; you just need to work with your accountant to
make sure the money flows out properly and legally. I strongly recommend
an accountant who is a certified Profit First Professional, who knows
exactly how to support your Profit First business.

Don’t Underpay Your Most Important Employee

I was having dinner with my friend Rodrigo when he told me how his
business generated $350,000 in annual revenue, but he was living on below-
minimum wage.

As a thunderstorm approached in the distance, I took the napkin with
the fewest salsa stains and jotted down Rodrigo’s numbers. Multiplying his
$350,000 in Real Revenue by 35 percent (from the Instant Assessment), I
came up with just over $122,000.

“How many partners work in the business?” I asked.

“Me, and one other,” he replied.

Dividing by two, the amount for Owner’s Comp was a little more than
$61,000 each, but that was if they were doing the same work, warranting a
fifty-fifty split. As we discussed in the previous section, Owner’s Comp
should represent the work you do.

When I asked Rodrigo for more details about his own pay, he said, “I
take roughly $30,000 a year, and my partner left to get a full-time job, so he
takes zero now. We have three full-time employees at $65,000 each per
year, and I manage them.”

Td like to say I was shocked, but this scenario is all too common. How
was Rodrigo supporting himself and his family on below-minimum wage? I
figured he was using credit cards, family loans, and possibly a home
refinance to supplement his paltry income.

“Tf all three of your employees decided to leave on the same day, what
would you do?” I asked.

“T would do all of the work myself and my partner would come back.”

“So why don’t you do that?” I asked.

===== PDF PAGE 117 =====
Now we are going to do our first allocation. Divide up the money in the
INCOME account into all the other accounts (PROFIT, OWNER’S COMP,
TAX, and OPEX) based on the CAPs you set. This is your first-ever
“allocation” and will be the only thing you ever do with the INCOME
account, besides receiving future deposits from sales.

Let’s do the allocation right now. Say you had $5,000 in your old
primary bank account. You have renamed that account OPEX and
determined that you have $3,000 in checks and payments still waiting to
clear. That means you have $2,000 currently available. Transfer the $2,000
to the INCOME account. Then transfer all the money from the INCOME
account to the respective accounts based on percentages.

Run your percentages on that $2,000 and move that money into the
accounts. Continuing my example, it would allocate the $2,000 as follows:

INCOME *8855 -. This account, which had the $2,000, goes to $0 as all the money

gets allocated to PROFIT, OWNER'S COMP, TAX, and OPEX, based upon the CAPs

we have set.

PROFIT 1% (TAP 10%) *8843 — $20 goes here

OWNER'S COMP 5% (TAP 10%) *8833 -. $100 goes here

TAX 1% (TAP 15%) *8839 ~ $20 goes here

OPEX 93% (TAP 65%) *8812 — $1,860 goes here

As you see the numbers allocated, you will see that while the
percentages aren’t pretty, it is obvious that a huge portion of your money is
going to expenses. It feels good to know you now have a system and have
clarity, but the immediate picture is ugly. And that is kind of what we want
because over time you will be motivated to make the allocation percentages
better and better. You will be motivated to reduce expenses, and perhaps
even more important, you will find ways to increase your profitability (via
innovations, thinking up new, better, and more efficient steps). This system
will make it undeniably clear on what money you have and what purpose it
is being used for. And with this clarity, you can make much better decisions
to improve the health of your business.

Now that you’ve seen an example, do you have any deposits to make
today? If so, tally up the deposits, put them in the bank, and then
immediately distribute the money to all the other accounts. Do this for every

===== PDF PAGE 118 =====
deposit going forward. (If you have lots of deposits, don’t worry, you don’t
need to do this every single day or multiple times a day. We are going to get
you into a twice-a-month rhythm shortly that will make this process
manageable.)

4. Our First Day, Our First Celebration

Congrats! I am not saying that lightly. You’ve just taken a big step. This is
likely the first time in your entire business life that you have deliberately
accounted for your profit first. Before anything else, you made sure you
addressed your profit, your personal income, and your tax responsibilities.
That’s a big deal. And it is a big step to a very, very healthy business.
Kudos to you. Enjoy a nice margarita tonight; that is, unless you don’t like
margaritas. In that case, tell me and I’ll drink one in your honor.

WEEK ONE: CUT EXPENSES

Now that we are moving money into our PROFIT, OWNER’S COMP,
TAX, and OPEX accounts, we need to get the money from somewhere.
There are only two ways to do that: by increasing sales and cutting
expenses. Increasing sales is very doable (you did read The Pumpkin Plan
and Surge, right?), and is the key for colossal profitable growth. But it takes
time and it won’t happen overnight. Cutting expenses is generally a very
quick process and is usually very easy. From all the businesses I have met,
it is pretty easy for most of them to cut 10 to 20 percent of expenses
overnight, such as frivolous costs like unused recurring membership fees,
office space that impresses no one, that expensive car that is “justified”
because it is an expense, and perhaps even extra staff who aren’t helping
your cause much. Cutting unnecessary expenses might bring you some
psychological pain, but it’s a whole lot easier than trying to conjure new
sales out of nothing.

Jorge and José run their business based on what they can afford to do
today, not what they hope to be able to afford someday. This means that
they sometimes have to wait to hire someone or make a high-ticket
purchase. “When big expenses showed up,” Jorge explained, “we would sit

===== PDF PAGE 119 =====
down and ask ourselves, ‘Do we really need this?’ If we determined it
would hurt our profits at the end of the year, we didn’t buy it.”

Here we have just accounted for at least 3 percent (1 percent in each of
the PROFIT, OWNER’S COMP, and TAX accounts) of our income, so we
need to cover that by cutting three percent from our expenses. To do that, I
need you to print out two things:

1. Your expenses for the last twelve months.
2. Any recurring expenses: rent, subscriptions, Internet access,
training, classes, magazines, etc.

Now add up all the expenses and then multiply that number by 10
percent. You must cut costs by 10 percent. Now! No if, ands, or buts!

So why cut by at least 10 percent, when we “only need 3 percent?”
Because cutting costs doesn’t mean the bills go away overnight. It may take
a month or two to pay down balances owed on expenses we eliminate.
More important, we need to start building cash reserves because by the start
of the next quarter, we are going to move another 3 percent to your
PROFIT, OWNER’S COMP, and TAX accounts, and then another 3 percent
the quarter after that. So we will be accounting for that money quickly.

You can easily find your first 10 percent in cuts by doing the following:

1. Cancel whatever you don’t need to help your business run
efficiently and keep your customers happy.
2. Negotiate every remaining expense, except payroll.

I share a lot more about cutting expenses in the coming chapters. You
are about to become a frugal (not cheap) entrepreneur. You will learn to use
only what you need and not be wasteful. You will pay fairly for what you
use, but you will use less. And you are going to love it.

TWICE A MONTH: THE TENTH AND TWENTY-FIFTH

===== PDF PAGE 125 =====
1. Monetary reward for the equity owners of the business.
2. A metric to measure growth.
3. Cash reserve for emergencies.

Tally the total amount of profit in the account (don’t add any quarterly
distribution percentages from deposits you received this day, yet) and take
50 percent of the money as profit. The other 50 percent remains in the
account, as a reserve.

Regardless of the day you start doing Profit First, take a distribution for
the current quarter on the first day of the new quarter. For example, let’s say
you decide to implement Profit First on August twelfth. You allocate to
your multiple accounts from that day forward. Then on October first, or the
first day of the new quarter that you do your bookkeeping, you distribute
the profit in the PROFIT Account. Whether you start this process on July
third or September thirtieth, the next quarter still begins as of October first;
so you distribute profits for the prior quarter that day. It doesn’t matter
when you start doing Profit First; what matters is that you get into a
quarterly rhythm.

Welcome to the big leagues. You will now take a distribution every
quarter, just as you would from a large public company. These companies
announce their quarterly income and then distribute a portion of the profits
to shareholders. And that’s exactly what you are going to do (see, you are
all grown up now). Quarterly is a great rhythm, by the way. It is a long
enough time between distributions that you start looking forward to them,
anticipating them. But it isn’t so frequent that they come to feel like a
normal part of your personal income.

Every quarter, you will take 50 percent of what is in the account and
leave the other 50 percent alone. For example, let’s say you have saved
$5,000 in your PROFIT account during the first quarter of implementing
Profit First. On the first day of the new quarter, you will take $2,500 as a
distribution to the equity owners and leave the other 50 percent intact.

If your company has multiple owners, the distributed profit is divided
up based on the percentage owned by each equity owner. According to the
above scenario, if you own 60 percent of the company, another partner
owns 35 percent, and an angel investor owns 5 percent, the distribution

===== PDF PAGE 126 =====
would be $1,500 (for you, the 60 percent owner), $875 (for the 35 percent
person) and $125 (for the investor).

The key is this: the profit distribution can never go back to the
company. You can’t use fancy terms like reinvest, plowback, or profit
retention. No term you use will cover up the fact that you are stealing from
Peter to pay Paul. Your business needs to run off the money it generates in
its operating expenses. The plowback of profit means you aren’t operating
efficiently enough to run off the operating expenses. And if you give the
profit back, you won’t experience the very important reward of your
company serving you. You’ll just be letting the monster loose again. So
always take your profit, every quarter, and use it for your own purposes. It’s
celebration time!

Celebration Time!

When you take your profit distribution, the money is to be used only for one
purpose: for your personal benefit. Profit is intended to be your reward for
having the guts to invest in your own business. Use it for whatever gives
you personal joy. Maybe you go out for a nice dinner with your family.
Maybe you feel joy in building up a fortress of money in your retirement
fund. Maybe you get that awesome new couch you have your eye on.
Maybe you go on a dream vacation.

In the five years since Jorge and José started implementing Profit First
in their business, they have taken several dream vacations—Bermuda,
Europe, Central America, Australia, Newark, New Jersey (What? OK, it’s
the Garden State)—and have gifted those vacations to their loved ones as
well. These guys know how to celebrate!

“Before we started using Profit First in our business, we were a little bit
lost, and wondered when the business would take off and improve our
lifestyle,” Jorge told me. “I don’t think anyone wants to work just for the
paycheck. You need more incentive. Now, at the end of the quarter, we
really look forward to planning what we’re going to do with the extra
money.”

Whatever it is, you must use your profits on you! Why? Because this is
how you turn Frankenstein, that cash-eating monster, into a cash cow that
