
===== PDF PAGE 29 =====
the first place!

The fact of the matter is that we all have an Entrepreneur, Manager, and
Technician inside us. And if they were equally balanced, we’d be describing
an incredibly competent individual.

The Entrepreneur would be free to forge ahead into new areas of interest;
The Manager would be solidifying the base of operations; and The
Technician would be doing the technical work.

Each would derive satisfaction from the work he does best, serving the
whole in the most productive way.

Unfortunately, our experience shows us that few people who go into
business are blessed with such a balance. Instead, the typical small business
owner is only 10 percent Entrepreneur, 20 percent Manager, and 70 percent
Technician.

The Entrepreneur wakes up with a vision.

The Manager screams “Oh, no!”

And while the two of them are battling it out, The Technician seizes the
opportunity to go into business for himself.

Not to pursue the entrepreneurial dream, however, but to finally wrest
control of his work from the other two.

To The Technician it’s a dream come true. The Boss is dead.

But to the business it’s a disaster, because the wrong person is at the
helm.

The Technician is in charge!

Sarah looked a little overwhelmed.

“T don’t understand,” she said. “How could I have done this differently?
The only reason I went into this business was because I loved baking pies. If
it hadn’t been for that, what would have been the point?” She watched my
face suspiciously, as though I were trying to make her already impossible
situation even more impossible.

“Well, let’s think about it together,” I answered.

“Tf it’s true that within each businessperson there are three personalities,
rather than just one, can you imagine what a mess that makes? If one of you
wants this, and another of you wants that, and a third wants something
entirely different, can you imagine the confusion that causes in our lives?

===== PDF PAGE 30 =====
And it’s not only the personalities inside each one of us that confuse us but
all the others we come into contact with as well: in our customers, in our
employees, in our children, in our partners, in our parents, in our friends, in
our spouses, in our lovers. If this is true, and all you need to do to discover
whether it is or not is to take a look at yourself from day to day, as though
from above, as though from outside of your skin, as though you were
watching someone else—that is, to observe yourself as you go through the
day—you would see the different parts come out. You would see them
playing their respective games. You would see how they fight for their own
space—and the space of all the others—and sabotage each other as best they
can.

“Tn your business, you would see how one part of you craves a sense of
order, while another part of you dreams about the future. You would see how
another part of you can’t stand being idle, and jumps in to bake, and to clean
up, and to wait on customers, the part of you who feels guilty if she isn’t
doing something all the time.

“Tn short, you would see how The Entrepreneur in you dreams and
schemes, The Manager in you is constantly attempting to keep things as they
are, and The Technician in you drives the other two crazy. You would see
that it not only matters that your personalities are not in a balanced
relationship with each other but that your life depends on gaining that
balance. That until you do, it’s a war! And it’s a war no one can win.

“You would also see that one of your personalities is the strongest of the
three (or four, or five, or six), and that she always manages to control the
others. In fact, if you watch long enough, you’!l begin to understand how
devastating the tyranny of your strongest personality is to your life. And
you’ll see that without balance, without all three of these personalities being
given the opportunity, the freedom, the nourishment they each need to grow,
your business cannot help but mirror your own lopsidedness.

“So it is that an entrepreneurial business, without a Manager to give it
order and without a Technician to put it to work, is doomed to suffer an early,
and probably very dramatic, death. And that a Manager-driven business,
without an Entrepreneur or a Technician to play their absolutely critical roles,
will put things into little gray boxes over and over again, only to realize too
late that there’s no reason for the things or the boxes she put them into! Such
a business will die very neatly.

“And that in a Technician-driven business, without The Entrepreneur to

===== PDF PAGE 31 =====
lead her and The Manager to supervise her, The Technician will work until
she drops, only to wake up the next morning to go to work even harder, and
the next, and the next. Only to discover, long after it’s too late, that while she
was working someone moved a freeway through the store!”

Sarah looked at me with uncertainty.

“But, I’m not an Entrepreneur,” she said.

“All I do is bake pies. All I ever wanted to do was to bake pies, just like
The Technician you described. When entrepreneurial personalities were
passed out, I think I got passed over. What do I do if there is no Entrepreneur
in me?”

I couldn’t help but smile. This was going to be fun. Because I knew when
Sarah finally got it—and I knew she would—she was going to discover
someone in herself she never knew was there.

“Before we reach that conclusion, Sarah, let’s look more closely at what
an Entrepreneur does,” I responded.

“An Entrepreneur does the work of envisioning the business as something
apart from you, the owner. The work of asking all the right questions about
why this business, as opposed to that business? Why a pie baking business
rather than a body shop? If you are a baker of pies, it’s easy for you to decide
to open up a pie-baking business. But that’s just the point. If you are a baker
of pies and are determined to do entrepreneurial work, you would leave your
pie-baking experience behind you and engage in the internal dialogue with
which every truly entrepreneurial personality is wonderfully familiar.

“You would begin to say to yourself, ‘It’s time for me to create a new life.
It’s time for me to challenge my imagination and to begin the process of
shaping an entirely new life. And the best way to do that anywhere in this
whole wide opportunity-filled world is to create an exciting new business.
One that can give me everything that I want, one that doesn’t require me to
be there all the time, one that has the potential to be stunningly unique, one
that people will talk about long after having shopped in it the very first time,
and, as a result of that delightful experience, will come back to shop there
again because it has such a special flavor to it. I wonder what that business
would be?’

“T wonder what that business would be?” I said to Sarah, “is the truly
entrepreneurial question. The dreaming question, I call it. It’s the question
that is at the heart of the work of an Entrepreneur. I wonder. I wonder. I
wonder.

===== PDF PAGE 65 =====
PART II
The Turn-Key Revolution: A New
View of Business

===== PDF PAGE 66 =====
7
THE TURN-KEY REVOLUTION
Systems theory looks at the world in terms of the interrelatedness of
all phenomena, and in this framework an integrated whole whose
properties cannot be reduced to those of its parts is called a system.
Fritjof Capra
The Turning Point
The Industrial Revolution, the Technological Revolution, the Information
Explosion are all familiar phenomena in today’s world. There is no question
of the impact each has had on our lives.

If asked to describe the Turn-Key Revolution, however, most people
would simply respond with a blank stare.

Yet the impact of the Turn-Key Revolution on American small business,
and the inferences we can draw about that impact for the future, are as
profound as any of the phenomena cited above.

For at the heart of the Turn-Key Revolution is a way of doing business
that has the power to dramatically transform any small business—indeed, any
business, no matter what its size—from a condition of chaos and disease to a
condition of order, excitement, and continuous growth. It is the Turn-Key
Revolution that provides us with that illusive key to the development of an
extraordinary business: the ultimately balanced model of a business that
works.

===== PDF PAGE 81 =====
for you.

Where working on your business rather than in your business will become
the central theme of your daily activity, the prime catalyst for everything you
do from this moment forward.

Pretend that the business you own—or want to own—is the prototype, or
will be the prototype, for 5,000 more just like it.

That your business is going to serve as the model for 5,000 more just like
it.

Not almost like it, but just like it. Perfect replicates. Clones.

In other words, pretend that you are going to franchise your business.
(Note: I said pretend. I’m not saying that you should. That isn’t the point here
—unless, of course, you want it to be.)

Further, now that you know what the game is—the franchise game—
understand that there are rules to follow if you are to win:

1. The model will provide consistent value to your customers,
employees, suppliers, and lenders, beyond what they expect.

2. The model will be operated by people with the lowest possible level of
skill.

3. The model will stand out as a place of impeccable order.

4. All work in the model will be documented in Operations Manuals.

5. The model will provide a uniformly predictable service to the
customer.

6. The model will utilize a uniform color, dress, and facilities code.

Let’s take a look at each of these rules in turn.

1. The Model Will Provide Consistent Value to Your Customers,
Employees, Suppliers, and Lenders, Beyond What They Expect

What is value?

How do we understand it? I would suggest that value is what people
perceive it to be, and nothing more.

So what could your Prototype do that would not only provide consistent
value to your customers, employees, suppliers, and lenders but would provide
it beyond their wildest expectations?

That is the question every Entrepreneur must ask.

Because it is the raison d’étre of his business!

===== PDF PAGE 82 =====
It is in the understanding of value, as it impacts every person with whom
your business comes into contact, that every extraordinary business lives.

Value can be a word said at the door of the business as a customer leaves.

Value can be an unexpected gift from the business arriving in the mail.

Value can be a word of recognition to a new recruit for a job well done,
or, for that matter, to a seasoned salesperson who’s been successful for years.

Value can be the reasonable price of your products, or the dedication you
show in the process of explaining them to a customer who needs more help
than usual.

Value can be a simple word of thanks to your banker for his
conscientiousness.

Value is essential to your business and to the satisfaction you get from it
as it grows.

2. The Model Will Be Operated by People with the Lowest Possible
Level of Skill

Yes, I said lowest possible level of skill. Because if your model depends
on highly skilled people, it’s going to be impossible to replicate. Such people
are at a premium in the marketplace. They’re also expensive, thus raising the
price you will have to charge for your product or service.

By lowest possible level of skill I mean the lowest possible level
necessary to fulfill the functions for which each is intended. Obviously, if
yours is a legal firm, you must have attorneys. If yours is a medical firm, you
must have physicians. But you don’t need to hire brilliant attorneys or
brilliant physicians. You need to create the very best system through which
good attorneys and good physicians can be leveraged to produce exquisite
results.

The question you need to keep asking yourself is: How can I give my
customer the results he wants systematically rather than personally? Put
another way: How can I create a business whose results are systems-
dependent rather than people-dependent? Systems-dependent rather than
expert-dependent.

How can I create an expert system rather than hire one?

That is not to say that people are unimportant. On the contrary, people
bring systems to life.

People make it possible for things that are designed to work to produce
the intended results. And, in the process, people who are systems oriented—

===== PDF PAGE 84 =====
extraordinary ones.

You will be forced to find a system that leverages your ordinary people to
the point where they can produce extraordinary results over and over again.

You will be forced to invent innovative system solutions to the people
problems that have plagued small businesses (and big businesses as well!)
since the beginning of time.

You will be forced to build a business that works.

You will be forced to do the work of Business Development not as a
replacement for people development but as its necessary correlate.

3. The Model Will Stand Out as a Place of Impeccable Order

At the core of Rule #3 is the irrepressible fact that in a world of chaos,
most people crave order. And it doesn’t take a genius to see that the world
today is in a state of massive chaos. Wars, famine, crime, violence, inflation,
recession, a shifting of traditional forms of social interaction, the threat of
nuclear proliferation, HIV, holocaust in all its horrific forms are all
communicated instantly and continuously to the fixated consumer, to all of us
watching TV.

As Alvin Toffler wrote in his revolutionary book, The Third Wave, “...
most people surveying the world around them today see only chaos. They
suffer a sense of personal powerlessness and pointlessness.” He went on to
say that, “Individuals need life structure. A life lacking in comprehensive
structure is an aimless wreck. The absence of structure breeds breakdown.
Structure provides the relatively fixed points of reference we need.”!

It is these “relatively fixed points of reference” that an orderly business
provides its customer and its employees in an otherwise disorderly world.

A business that looks orderly says to your customer that your people
know what they’re doing.

A business that looks orderly says to your people that you know what
you’re doing.

A business that looks orderly says that while the world may not work,
some things can.

A business that looks orderly says to your customer that he can trust in
the result delivered and assures your people that they can trust in their future
with you.

A business that looks orderly says that the structure is in place.

===== PDF PAGE 85 =====
4, All Work in the Model Will Be Documented in Operations Manuals

Documentation says, “This is how we do it here.”

Without documentation, all routinized work turns into exceptions.

Documentation provides your people with the structure they need and
with a written account of how to “get the job done” in the most efficient and
effective way. It communicates to the new employees, as well as to the old,
that there is a logic to the world in which they have chosen to work, that there
is a technology by which results are produced. Documentation is an
affirmation of order.

Again from Toffler: “...for many people, a job is crucial psychologically,
over and above the paycheck. By making clear demands on their time and
energy, it provides an element of structure around which the rest of their lives
can be organized.”2

The operative word here is clear.

Documentation provides the clarity structure needs if it is to be
meaningful to your people.

Through documentation, structure is reduced to specific means rather than
generalized ends, to a literal and simplified task The Technician in each of us
needs to understand to do the job at hand.

The Operations Manual—the repository of the documentation—is
therefore best described as a company’s How-to-Do-It Guide.

It designates the purpose of the work, specifies the steps needed to be
taken while doing that work, and summarizes the standards associated with
both the process and the result.

Your Prototype would not be a model without one.

5. The Model Will Provide a Uniformly Predictable Service to the
Customer

While the business must look orderly, it is not sufficient; the business
must also act orderly. It must do things in a predictable, uniform way.

An experience I had not too long ago illustrates the point.

I went to a barber who, in our first meeting, gave me one of the best
haircuts I had ever had. He was a master with the scissors and used them
exclusively, never resorting to electric shears as so many others do. Before
cutting my hair, he insisted on washing it, explaining that the washing made
cutting easier. During the haircut, one of his assistants kept my cup of coffee

===== PDF PAGE 86 =====
fresh. In all, the experience was delightful, so I made an appointment to
return.

When I returned, however, everything had changed. Instead of using the
scissors exclusively, he used the shears about 50 percent of the time. He not
only didn’t wash my hair but never even mentioned it. The assistant did bring
me a cup of coffee, but only once, never to return. Nonetheless, the haircut
was again excellent.

Several weeks later, I returned for a third appointment. This time, the
barber did wash my hair, but after cutting it, preliminary to a final trim. This
time he again used the scissors exclusively, but, unlike the first two times, no
coffee was served, although he did ask if I would like a glass of wine. At first
I thought it might be the assistant’s day off, but she soon appeared, busily
working with the inventory near the front of the shop.

As I left, something in me decided not to go back. It certainly wasn’t the
haircut—he did an excellent job. It wasn’t the barber. He was pleasant,
affable, seemed to know his business. It was something more essential than
that.

There was absolutely no consistency to the experience.

The expectations created at the first meeting were violated at each
subsequent visit. I wasn’t sure what to expect. And something in me wanted
to be sure. I wanted an experience J could repeat by making the choice to
return.

The unpredictability said nothing about the barber, other than that he was
constantly—and arbitrarily—changing my experience for me. He was in
control of my experience, not I. And he demonstrated little sensitivity to the
impact of his behavior on me. He was running the business for him, not for
me. And by doing so, he was depriving me of the experience of making a
decision to patronize his business for my own reasons, whatever they might
have been.

It didn’t matter what I wanted.

It didn’t matter that I enjoyed the sound of the scissors and somehow
equated them with a professional haircut.

It didn’t matter that I enjoyed being waited on by his assistant.

It didn’t matter that I enjoyed the experience of having my hair washed
before he set to work and that I actually believed it would improve the quality
of the haircut.

I would have been embarrassed to ask for these things, let alone to give

===== PDF PAGE 109 =====
business?

With no clear picture of how you wish your life to be, how on earth can
you begin to live it?

How would you know what first step to take?

How would you measure your progress?

How would you know where you were?

How would you know how far you had gone?

How would you know how much farther you had yet to go?

Without your Primary Aim, you wouldn’t. Indeed, you couldn’t. It would
be virtually impossible.

As with Mature companies, I believe great people to be those who know
how they got where they are, and what they need to do to get where they’re
going.

Great people have a vision of their lives that they practice emulating each
and every day.

They go to work on their lives, not just in their lives.

Their lives are spent living out the vision they have of their future, in the
present. They compare what they’ve done with what they intended to do. And
where there’s a disparity between the two, they don’t wait very long to make
up the difference.

They go to work on their lives, not just in their lives.

I believe it’s true that the difference between great people and everyone
else is that great people create their lives actively, while everyone else is
created by their lives, passively waiting to see where life takes them next.

The difference between the two is the difference between living fully and
just existing.

The difference between the two is living intentionally and living by
accident.

Let me repeat once more that great quote by Don Juan in Carlos
Castaneda’s A Separate Peace: “The difference between a warrior and an
ordinary man is that a warrior sees everything as a challenge, while an
ordinary man sees everything as either a blessing or a curse.”

So before you start your business, or before you return to it tomorrow, ask
yourself the following questions:

+ What do I wish my life to look like?
+ How do I wish my life to be on a day-to-day basis?

===== PDF PAGE 110 =====
* What would I like to be able to say I truly know in my life, about my
life?

* How would I like to be with other people in my life—my family, my
friends, my business associates, my customers, my employees, my
community?

* How would I like people to think about me?

+ What would I like to be doing two years from now? Ten years from
now? Twenty years from now? When my life comes to a close?

* What specifically would I like to learn during my life—spiritually,
physically, financially, technically, intellectually? About relationships?

+ How much money will I need to do the things I wish to do? By when
will I need it?

These are just a few of the questions you might ask yourself in the
creation of your Primary Aim.

The answers become the standards against which you can begin to
measure your life’s progress. In the absence of such standards, your life will
drift aimlessly, without purpose, without meaning.

In that regard, your Primary Aim is the vision necessary to bring your
business to life and your life to your business.

It provides you with a purpose.

It provides you with energy.

It provides you with the grist for your day-to-day mill.

“That’s what’s been missing in my business,” Sarah all but shouted. “Me!
How could I have been so oblivious to something so obvious?”

“Don’t be so hard on yourself,” I said. “We are all oblivious. Join the
club. Let me tell you a story.

“There was once a young man who had recently turned forty whose life
seemed to be going nowhere. Somehow he had never grabbed hold of a
career. His life had no purpose. College had somehow eluded him. In his first
year at UCLA, he couldn’t find anything to hold his attention and he quit. He
studied music—many said brilliantly—as a boy, but in his early adult years
failed to find the conviction he needed to pursue it.

“Many different things attracted him—music, religion, mysticism, writing
poetry, drugs, writing pulp fiction, money—none of them permanently. He
took whatever jobs came along, and, because of his natural and varied talents,

===== PDF PAGE 133 =====
The next step Jack and Murray take is to draw a line across a blank piece
of paper about a third of the way down. Above the line they write in bold
letters the word SHAREHOLDERS. They have agreed with each other that
is to be their role outside of the business.

Inside of the business, they have agreed, they will from this time forward
think of themselves as EMPLOYEES.

They realize this will save them a lot of trouble later on.

The next step will require some time: the creation of the Strategic
Objective for Widget Makers, Inc. Jack and Murray go at it enthusiastically.
Murray agrees to do the necessary research concerning the Central
Demographic Model they have tentatively chosen. How many potential
buyers are there in the territory in which they’ve decided to do business? Is
the population growing? What is the competition? How are widgets priced
and how are they selling? Is there a future for widgets in the territory? What
is the anticipated growth of the territory? Any zoning changes expected?

Murray also agrees to create a questionnaire and mail it to a sample of
their Central Demographic Model consumers to find out how they feel
they’re treated by other widget companies. At the same time, Murray is to
personally call 150 of those consumers. He’!] conduct a Needs Analysis to
get a better understanding of how they think and feel about widgets. What do
widgets mean to them? How have widgets changed their lives? If they could
have any kind of widget at all, what would it look like? How would it feel to
use it? What do they want a good widget to do for them?

Murray agrees to do the research by a certain date.

Meanwhile, Jack agrees to pull together the preliminary financial data
needed to secure a loan from the bank—an operating pro forma and a cash
flow projection for the first year of operation.

Once the information about the consumer, the competition, and the
pricing is collected, Jack and Murray will meet again and complete their
Strategic Objective and plug in the final numbers needed for the loan.

Luck is with them. The information Murray collects about their Central
Demographic Model, the competition, and the pricing is more than
encouraging.

They complete their Strategic Objective and then begin the task of
organizational development—the creation of their Organization Chart.

Since their Strategic Objective has indicated how they will be doing
business (one location, assembling and selling widgets and widget-related

===== PDF PAGE 134 =====
accessories to a specific consumer within the territory described as North
Marine West), Jack and Murray agree that their Organization Chart will
require the following positions:

+ President and Chief Operating Officer (COO), accountable for the
overall achievement of the Strategic Objective and reporting to the
SHAREHOLDERS who include, on an equal basis, Jack and Murray.

+ Vice-President/Marketing, accountable for finding customers and
finding new ways to provide customers with the satisfactions they
derive from widgets, at lower cost, and with greater ease, and reporting
to the COO.

+ Vice-President/Operations, accountable for keeping customers by
delivering to them what is promised by Marketing, and for discovering
new ways of assembling widgets, at lower cost, and with greater
efficiency so as to provide the customer with better service, reporting
to the COO.

+ Vice-President/Finance, accountable for supporting both Marketing and
Operations in the fulfillment of their accountabilities by achieving the
company’s profitability standards, and by securing capital whenever
it’s needed, and at the best rates, also reporting to the COO.

+ Reporting to the Vice-President/Marketing are two positions: Sales
Manager and Advertising/Research Manager.

+ Reporting to the Vice-President/Operations are three positions:
Production Manager, Service Manager, and Facilities Manager.

+ Reporting to the Vice-President/Finance are two positions: Accounts
Receivable Manager and Accounts Payable Manager.

Jack and Murray sit back and look at the completed Organization Chart of
Widget Makers, Inc., and smile. It sure looks like a big company. The only
problem is that Jack and Murray’s names will have to fill all the boxes!
They’re the only two employees.

But what they have effectively done is describe all the work that’s going
to be done in Widget Makers, Inc., when its full potential is realized.

More importantly, they have described the work that has to be done right
away!

Jack and Murray realize that there’s no difference between the Widget
Makers of today and the Widget Makers of tomorrow; the work is the same;

===== PDF PAGE 135 =====
only the faces will change.

The next job jack and Murray take on is writing a Position Contract for
each position on their Organization Chart.

A Position Contract (as we call it at E-Myth Worldwide) is a summary of
the results to be achieved by each position in the company, the work the
occupant of that position is accountable for, a list of standards by which the
results are to be evaluated, and a line for the signature of the person who
agrees to fulfill those accountabilities.

Jack and Murray know that a Position Contract is not a job description.

It is a contract, rather than just a description, between the company and an
employee, a summary of the rules of the company’s game.

It provides each person in an organization with a sense of commitment
and accountability.

Accountability literally means “stand up and be counted.”

Therefore, the Position Contract is the document that identifies who’s to
stand up and what they’re being counted on to produce.

Widget Makers, Inc.
Organization Chart
