Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine: Fresh Helmets In 8 Minutes Skip to content
AgriBusiness
Business Ideas
Money & Finance
Marketing & Sales
Media OutReach
Contact Us
About
Blog
Contact Us
Disclaimer
Free eBooks
Home
Media OutReach Newswire Corporate News
Newsletter
Privacy Policy
Terms
Home - Business Ideas - Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine: Fresh Helmets in 8 Minutes
Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine: Fresh Helmets in 8 Minutes
By BD / December 7, 2024
Has everyone already tried this? More and more people are becoming interested in motorcycles. Aside from making travel faster, some even turn it into a hobby. However, during the rainy season, the rain inevitably wets the helmets, causing them to develop an unpleasant odor. If you’re struggling with dirty and smelly helmets, there’s now a solution!
Table of Contents
Toggle
How It Works
Cost and Features
Business Potential of Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine
Expanding the Market
Inspiration for Entrepreneurs
No need to tire yourself out washing and waiting for them to dry—just place the helmet in a machine, wait for a little over eight minutes, and your helmet will come out smelling fresh and clean. Introducing the Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine !
How It Works
The cleaning process consists of five steps:
Fog Sanitizing : They spray a disinfectant mist to sanitize the helmet.
UV Sanitizing : A UV light in the center of the machine focuses on disinfecting and deodorizing the helmet. It releases a clean scent to ensure freshness.
Ozone Cleansing : It eliminates bacteria, viruses, fungi, and other biological matter
High Heat Drying
Deodorizing : Ensuring the helmet smells great.
In just 8 minutes and 40 seconds , your helmet will smell fresh again. Impressed riders tried it.
“It no longer smells bad—it’s fresh now!”
“Convenient and quick, and it smells great!”
“It’s now comfortable to wear. I’ll keep using this for my customers.”
Cost and Features
Price per cleaning : Php 100
Payment options include Php 100 bills or two Php 50 bills.
Time : One cleaning cycle takes 520 seconds (8 minutes and 40 seconds).
Recommended Frequency : We suggest weekly cleaning, especially for motor taxis, to prevent mold buildup.
Business Potential of Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine
The machines cost Php 265,000 each, which includes:
20 liters of cleaning solution
Fragrance
Warranty and after-sales support
The designers created the machine for passive income—no need for constant supervision.
Daily average users per machine : 10 helmets
Monthly income : Around Php 30,000
Return on investment (ROI) : Relatively fast, depending on location.
Expanding the Market
Though the Helmet Cleaning Vending Machine business is new, with only a month of public operation, there has been a surge of interest in becoming distributors. They currently receive over 150 inquiries daily . For inquiries, visit them on TikTok !
The owners highlight that this type of business is scalable because they can set up the helmet cleaning vending machines in multiple locations, providing consistent income with minimal maintenance.
Inspiration for Entrepreneurs
The story emphasizes taking action on ideas before others do. As the owner said:
“Don’t wait for someone else to start. The advantage goes to those who take the first step. Who knows? This might be your potential business idea.”
This innovative solution addresses a common problem and shows the potential of finding opportunities in everyday challenges.
Watch the full story on YouTube channel .
Spread the love
These Might Interest You:
Grab’n Go Bar Vending Machines: The Future of Smart Business
Best Machine Learning Course in Mumbai with Python, AI & Deep Learning
6 Common Mistakes That Increase Machine Cleaning Costs
The Fusion Delight: Why I Fell in Love with Japanese Sweet Potato Chocolate Cake
5 Reasons It Is Important to Clean Your Restaurant’s Appliances
How to Make Money in Medicinal Plant Farming
Role of Machine Learning in AI Traders and Algo Trading
Previous
Parol Cakes: Pampanga’s Sweet Christmas Delight
Next
Famous Belgian Waffles in the Philippines: A Delicious Favorite
Leave a Comment Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Type here..
Name*
Email*
Search for: Search
Get new posts by email:
Subscribe
Powered by
Categories
Categories Select Category AgriBusiness AquaBusiness Herbs Livestock AI & Technology Gadgets Web Business Ideas Business Opportunity Franchising Home Business Online Business Business Models & Insights Business News Career Cars E-Commerce Education Entertainment Family Fashion Food Food Business Recipes Gaming Health Home Living Infographics Inventions Jobs Legal Lifestyle LTO Marketing & Sales Branding & Packaging SEO Social Media Marketing Media Outreach Money & Finance Cryptocurrency Forex Loans & Financing PH Benefits & Loans Real Estate Stock Market Trading Others Pets Side Hustles Make Money Sports Start & Grow a Business Business Plans Business Tips Business Tools Funding Sources How to Start Licenses & Permits Management Success Stories Entrepreneurs Travel
Business Ideas
Beekeeping industry shows potential to thrive with Milea’s health care products with natural healing abilities
How to Make a Therapeutic Aroma Candle
Christmas lanterns for sale
Finance
Ormoc City modernizes public service access with GCash-Powered Cityzen’s Card
SSS pays tribute to pensioners with annual Pensioners’ Day
SSS LoanLite now available through UnionDigital Bank mobile app
Marketing
How Personal Branding on Social Media Drives Business Success
B2B Podcast Production Agency Services Every Growing Business Should Know
When Is It Time to Replace Your Business Sign?
Success Stories
How to Make Tatay Johnny’s Pancit Estacion: A Delicious Legacy in Tanza, Cavite
15 Young Filipina Entrepreneurs Redefining Success in the Philippines
Succeesful Dairy Cow Production: Luce’s Formula
Food Recipes
How to Make Dried Fish (Daing na Isda)
How to Make Milk Chocolate Covered Polvoron
How to Make Kare-kare (Oxtail and Vegetables in Peanut Sauce)
Technology
The Role of AI in Making Clinical Documentation More Efficient
Micron vs. Nvidia vs. AMD: Which Semiconductor Stock Looks Strongest to Invest in Right Now?
Everything Businesses Should Know About Quantum Computing
News
Avantor Expands RIM Single-Use Portfolio Across APAC
Cebu housing demand stays resilientas buyers seek value beyond urban core – Pueblo de Oro
Spiralytics Study Finds Philippine Brands Lead AI Visibility at 83%, But Third Parties Do the Talking
Comments
Antonio Avila on Ways To Ensure Your Company’s Logistics Are Flowing Smoothly
singing test on Spices in the Philippines: A Comprehensive Guide to Herbs and Flavors
mod apk on How to Apply for a Land Bank Loan for Farm Expansion
Mara Villanueva on Spices in the Philippines: A Comprehensive Guide to Herbs and Flavors
Jamie Klausen on Picking Details For Home Development
Copyright © 2026 Business Diary | About | Privacy Policy | Powered by Astra WordPress Theme
Scroll to Top
Go to mobile version
